Blazor ebook - AppStartup chapter (#17388)
dotnet/docs: docs/architecture/blazor-for-web-forms-developers/app-startup.md

```csharp
public class Startup
{
  public Startup(IConfiguration configuration)
  {
    Configuration = configuration;
  }

  public IConfiguration Configuration { get; }

  // This method gets called by the runtime. Use this method to add services to the container.
  // For more information on how to configure your application, visit https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=398940
  public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
  {
    services.AddRazorPages();
    services.AddServerSideBlazor();
    services.AddSingleton<WeatherForecastService>();
  }

  // This method gets called by the runtime. Use this method to configure the HTTP request pipeline.
  public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env)
  {
    if (env.IsDevelopment())
    {
      app.UseDeveloperExceptionPage();
    }
    else
    {
      app.UseExceptionHandler("/Error");
      // The default HSTS value is 30 days. You may want to change this for production scenarios, see https://aka.ms/aspnetcore-hsts.
      app.UseHsts();
    }

    app.UseHttpsRedirection();
    app.UseStaticFiles();

    app.UseRouting();

    app.UseEndpoints(endpoints =>
    {

>     endpoints.MapBlazorHub();
>     endpoints.MapFallbackToPage("/_Host");

Reviewer: Missing indentation:

```suggestion
      endpoints.MapBlazorHub();
      endpoints.MapFallbackToPage("/_Host");
```

   });
  }
 }
```

Like the rest of ASP.NET Core, the Startup class is created with dependency injection principles.  The `IConfiguration` is provided to the constructor and stashed in a public property for later access during configuration.

> The `ConfigureServices` method introduced in ASP.NET Core allows for the various ASP.NET Core framework services to be configured for the framework's built-in dependency injection container.  The various `services.Add*` methods add services that enable features such as authentication, razor pages, MVC controller routing, SignalR, and Blazor Server interactions among many others.  This method was not needed in web forms, as the parsing and handling of the ASPX, ASCX, ASHX, and ASMX files was defined by referencing ASP.NET in the web.config configuration file.  More information about dependency injection in ASP.NET Core are available in the [online documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/fundamentals/dependency-injection).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ConfigureServices` method introduced in ASP.NET Core allows for the various ASP.NET Core framework services to be configured for the framework's built-in dependency injection container.  The various `services.Add*` methods add services that enable features such as authentication, razor pages, MVC controller routing, SignalR, and Blazor Server interactions among many others.  This method was not needed in web forms, as the parsing and handling of the ASPX, ASCX, ASHX, and ASMX files was defined by referencing ASP.NET in the web.config configuration file.  More information about dependency injection in ASP.NET Core is available in the [online documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/fundamentals/dependency-injection).
```

The `Configure` method introduces the concept of the HTTP pipeline to ASP.NET Core.  In this method, we declare from top to bottom the [Middleware](middleware.md) that will handle every request sent to our application. Most of these features in the default configuration were scattered across the web forms configuration files and are now in one place for ease of reference.

No longer is the configuration of the custom error page placed in a `web.config` file, but now is configured to always be shown if the application environment is not labeled `Development`.  Additionally, ASP.NET Core applications are now configured to serve secure pages with TLS by default with the `UseHttpsRedirection` method call.

Next, an unexpected configuration method is listed to `UseStaticFiles`.  In ASP.NET Core, support for requests for static files (like JavaScript, CSS, and image files) must be explicitly enabled, and only files in the app's *wwwroot* folder are publicly addressable by default.

> The next line is the first that replicates one of the configuration options from web forms: `UseRouting`.  This method adds the ASP.NET Core router to the pipeline and it can be either configured here or in the individual files that it can consider routing to.  More information about routing configuration can be found in the [Routing section](page-routing-layouts.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next line is the first that replicates one of the configuration options from web forms: `UseRouting`.  This method adds the ASP.NET Core router to the pipeline and it can be either configured here or in the individual files that it can consider routing to.  More information about routing configuration can be found in the [Routing section](pages-routing-layouts.md).
```

## Application_Start and Web Forms

The default web forms `Application_Start` method has grown in purpose over the last 10 years of development to handle many configuration task.  A fresh web forms project with the default template in Visual Studio 2019 now contains the following configuration logic:

- `RouteConfig` - Application URL routing
- `BundleConfig` - CSS and JavaScript bundling and minification

Each of these individual files reside in the `App_Start` folder and run only once at the start of our application.  `RouteConfig` in the default project template adds the `FriendlyUrlSettings` for web forms to allow application URLs to omit the `.ASPX` file extension.  The default template also contains a directive that provides permanent HTTP redirect status codes (HTTP 301) for the `.ASPX` pages to the friendly URL with the file name that omits the extension.

With ASP.NET Core and Blazor, these methods are either simplified and consolidated into the `Startup` class or they are eliminated in favor of common web technologies.

> ## Blazor Server Startup Structure

Reviewer: Now that Blazor WebAssembly has shipped, I think we need a Blazor WebAssembly section as well. Blazor WebAssembly apps define startup logic in Program.Main and don't use the same `Startup` pattern used by ASP.NET Core. Technically both Blazor Server and Blazor WebAssembly define a `Program.Main` that sets up the host for the app. Blazor Server apps use the normal ASP.NET Core host, while Blazor WebAssembly apps have a WebAssembly specific host.

Author: This feels like scope creep at this point, and I suggest we recommend adding a chapter or two after the first version ships

Reviewer: We already talk about Blazor WebAssembly in the earlier chapters in the book, but we can unblock this PR and add the content later. Filed https://github.com/dotnet/docs/issues/19842 to track.

> ## Blazor Server-Side Startup Structure

Author: If this ebook is _only_ targeting migrating from Web Forms to Blazor Server, I think we should just keep it clear that this is a Blazor Server configuration.

> ## Blazor Server-Side Startup Structure

Reviewer: Are we scoping this book to just Blazor Server? I don't see any reason why we would do that with Blazor WebAssembly shipping in just a few weeks.

      // The default HSTS value is 30 days. You may want to change this for production scenarios, see https://aka.ms/aspnetcore-hsts.
      app.UseHsts();
    }

    app.UseHttpsRedirection();
    app.UseStaticFiles();

    app.UseRouting();

    app.UseEndpoints(endpoints =>
    {
    endpoints.MapBlazorHub();
    endpoints.MapFallbackToPage("/_Host");
   });
  }
 }
```

Like the rest of ASP.NET Core, the Startup class is created with dependency injection principles.  The `IConfiguration` is provided to the constructor and stashed in a public property for later access during configuration.

The `ConfigureServices` method introduced in ASP.NET Core allows for the various ASP.NET Core framework services to be configured for the framework's built-in dependency injection container.  This `services.Add*` common syntax allows  features to be added and removed from the application such as authentication, razor pages, MVC controller routing, SignalR, and Server-Side Blazor interactions among many others.  This method was not needed in web forms, as the parsing and handling of the ASPX, ASCX, ASHX, and ASMX files was defined by referencing ASP.NET in the web.config configuration file.

> The `Configure` method introduces the concept of the HTTP pipeline to ASP.NET Core.  In this method, we declare from top to bottom the methods that will handle every request sent to our application.  Most of these features in the default configuration were scattered across the web forms configuration files and are now in one place for ease of reference.

Author: Added middleware reference and link

No longer is the configuration of the custom error page placed in a `web.config` file, but now is configured to always be shown if the application environment is not labeled `Development`.  Additionally, ASP.NET Core applications are now configured to serve secure pages with TLS by default with the `UseHttpsRedirection` method call.

Next, an unexpected configuration method is listed to `UseStaticFiles`.  In ASP.NET Core, files that are not interpreted by .NET like JavaScript, CSS, images, and other content need to be explicitly configured to be accessible by visitors to our application.

The next line is the first that replicates one of the configuration options from web forms: `UseRouting`.  This method adds the ASP.NET Core router to the pipeline and it can be either configured here or in the individual files that it can consider routing to.  More information about routing configuration can be found in the [Routing section](page-routing-layouts.md).

> The final statement in this method defines the endpoints that ASP.NET Core is listening on.  These are the web accessible locations that you can access on the web server and receive some content handled by .NET and returned to you.  The first entry, `MapBlazorHub` configures a SignalR hub for use in providing the real-time and persistent connection to the server where the state and rendering of Blazor components will take place.  The `MapFallbackToPage` method call indicates the web-accessible location of the page that starts the Blazor application.

Author: Added sentence to reference the client-side routing handling

> The final statement in this method defines the endpoints that ASP.NET Core is listening on.  These are the web accessible locations that you can access on the web server and receive some content handled by .NET and returned to you.  The first entry, `MapBlazorHub` configures a SignalR hub for use in providing the real-time and persistent connection to the server where the state and rendering of Blazor components will take place.  The `MapFallbackToPage` method call indicates the web-accessible location of the page that starts the Blazor application and also configures the application to handle deep-linking requests from the client-side.  You will see this feature at work if you open a browser and navigate directly to your application and a Blazor handled route, such as `/counter` in the default project template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final statement in this method defines the endpoints that ASP.NET Core is listening on.  These are the web accessible locations that you can access on the web server and receive some content handled by .NET and returned to you.  The first entry, `MapBlazorHub` configures a SignalR hub for use in providing the real-time and persistent connection to the server where the state and rendering of Blazor components is handled.  The `MapFallbackToPage` method call indicates the web-accessible location of the page that starts the Blazor application and also configures the application to handle deep-linking requests from the client-side.  You will see this feature at work if you open a browser and navigate directly to Blazor handled route in your application, such as `/counter` in the default project template. The request gets handled by the *_Host.cshtml* fallback page, which then runs the Blazor router and renders the counter page.
```

## Upgrading the BundleConfig Process

> We recognize that bundling assets like CSS stylesheets and JavaScript files has evolved significantly, with other technologies providing quickly evolving tools and techniques for managing these resources.  To this end, there are several techniques recommended for managing these resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Technologies for bundling assets like CSS stylesheets and JavaScript files have evolved significantly, with other technologies providing quickly evolving tools and techniques for managing these resources.  To this end, there are several techniques recommended for managing these resources:
```

- Use an Node command-line tool such as Grunt / Gulp / WebPack

> - Use the .NET command-line `bundle` tool with `bundleconfig.json` configuration file

Reviewer: We no longer recommend this tool in our latest guidance.

Author: Removed reference to the bundle tool and reworded the prior sentence

The Grunt, Gulp, and WebPack command-line tools and their associated configurations can be added to your application and ASP.NET Core will quietly ignore those files during the application build process.  You can add a call to run their tasks by adding a `Target` inside your project file with syntax similar to the following that would trigger a gulp script and the `min` target inside that script

```xml
<Target Name="MyPreCompileTarget" BeforeTargets="Build">
  <Exec Command="gulp min" />
</Target>
```

> More details about both strategies to manage your CSS and JavaScript files are available in the [Bundle and minify static assets in ASP.NET Core](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/client-side/bundling-and-minification?view=aspnetcore-3.1&tabs=visual-studio) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More details about both strategies to manage your CSS and JavaScript files are available in the [Bundle and minify static assets in ASP.NET Core](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/client-side/bundling-and-minification) documentation.
```
